--- 
layout: post 
category: blog 
author: cgy 
title: Urbit chat~2014.1.6 
date: 2014-01-07 
---

Urbit works now.  For some values of "work."  To be exact, it's a pretty decent
replacement for IRC.  And since it's a pretty decent replacement for IRC, and
bored geeks are what they are, we use it as a replacement for IRC.

Unlike IRC, the Urbit chat server (:room) logs everything.  We thought we'd turn
this vice into a virtue and start posting our daily chat logs.  

Without further ado: Urbit, `~2014.1.6`:


    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin] is in the building
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin] is happy to announce that (his private branch
                    of) Hoon is now frozen
    ~ligfed-famsef "γίδα βραστή": hooray!
    ~ligfed-famsef "γίδα βραστή": what temperature?
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: 164 I think
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: still working on the version numbers
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: we will then have, sigh, another continuity
                    breach...
    ~sivbud-barnel [Bruce Schwartz] is in the building
    ~nibweg-sivnex is in the building
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: sivbud, is this hoon stuff making more sense
                    to you?
    ~patsec-rigreb [Benedikt Gerhard (Hanfer) Kleiner] is in the building
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: welcome patsec-rigreb
    ~patsec-rigreb [Benedikt Gerhard (Hanfer) Kleiner]: Hi
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: we will have a continuity breach (reboot the
                    world) soon, don't worry it's not something we do often :-)
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin] strongly recommends working through the Nock
                    doc for all new users
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: and old users as well
    ~patsec-rigreb [Benedikt Gerhard (Hanfer) Kleiner]: i just started .... im
                    about to read the nock part...
    ~ligfed-famsef "γίδα βραστή": if I were writing Nock doc for five-year-olds,
                    it would have a lot of explosions
    ~ligfed-famsef "γίδα βραστή": somehow it just feels like the formula is...
                    *detonating* the subject
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: ideally they would be animated with lots of
                    noise as well
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin] has a five-year-old girl for which this
                    treatment may not be ideal
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin] needs to find a way to make the subject be a
                    princess.
    ~ligfed-famsef "γίδα βραστή": we'll have an explosions version and a
                    princesses version
    ~ligfed-famsef "γίδα βραστή": and an explosions-and-princesses version for
                    %punks
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin] 's daughter might go for the
                    explosions-and-princesses
    ~patsec-rigreb [Benedikt Gerhard (Hanfer) Kleiner]: i might go for the
                    explosions-and-princesses version :D
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: no princesses can explode, that would scare
                    her
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: they would have to be very sparkly
                    explosions...
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short]: hello martians
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: good morning malmec-libsev
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: are you surprised that this just works?
    ~nibweg-sivnex has left the building
    ~sivbud-barnel [Bruce Schwartz] has left the building
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short]: I understand now what you meant by
                    building an identity abstraction layer being like zoo 
                    design, I think. Identities aren't commensurable across 
                    systems. Urbit ships, email addresses, ssh keys, and 
                    passports all express different concepts that can't
                    be abstracted away.
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short]: I am less surprised that this works
                    than, say, XMPP working.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: it still surprises me if XMPP works :-)
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin] forgets whether Google has federation turned
                    on or turned off at the moment
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short]: I worked on a SIP-based VoIP stack a
                    few years ago. My metric for surprise has been calibrated a
                    little differently ever since.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: but yes, it's very difficult to imagine any
                    kind of app that treats~tasfyn-partyv and curtis@tlon.io as
                    instances of the same thing
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: was SIP ever really a functioning standard?
                    I mean, if your stack spoke SIP and mine did too, did that 
                    just mean we could chat?
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short]: Yes! If there was no NAT involved. :)
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: did SIP for instance have a standard
                    required codec that everyone could fall back to?
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: urbit will actually do TURN, effectively, if
                    your NAT is too sucky
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: all the packets will be forwarded through
                    ~zod
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short]: well, SIP was just signalling, it
                    didn't handle media. RTP was the media stream, and I don't 
                    think there was a required codec.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: but this only happens if "bad NAT" is
                    talking to "bad NAT" - then there's no way around TURN.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: I do know this about SIP
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: the separation of media and streaming into
                    two protocol categories - both of which have to work if you
                    want to talk -
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: is good IETF politics, but that's about it
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short]: Right. Some bad NATs will work if you
                    can get both sides to start talking to each other 
                    simultaneously. But that's sort of a fine shade of 
                    difference
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: because it will reuse the same port anyway?
                    yicks.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: we haven't had any apparent NAT problems on
                    urbit for a little while, knock on wood
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: here, I'll use private messaging to send you
                    a packet directly...
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short]: yeah. as a result of our experience
                    with that, we started on a generalized NAT-holepunching 
                    library (after noticing it was impossible to send a file 
                    over the internet), but ran out of time and money.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: ha, I spoke too soon, my client is still
                    trying to punch a hole to you
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short]: anyway SIP was the only thing that did
                    that AFAIK. H.323 and IAX both had in-band signalling
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short]: oh, now I see "< doznec:"
    ~patsec-rigreb [Benedikt Gerhard (Hanfer) Kleiner] has left the building
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: ah, now my communication reached you
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short]: yep
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: we are neighbors, we've exchagned keys
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short]: nice.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: have to figure out why it took so long
                    though
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: for one thing, my congestion control is
                    utter sh*t
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: but in any case, the whole effort at
                    producing IETF standards was really doomed
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: what do people use to talk on the internets
                    today?  proprietary clients
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short]: well, supposedly the separation meant
                    you could do things like third-party call control, where the
                    signalling went through a controller host but the media 
                    stream went between clients directly
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: why?  basically in my book because IP
                    chickened out on the identity problem
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: that's a case of features pursuing a problem
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: or more precisely, that's a case of people
                    who sell legacy PBXes imposing their requirements on an 
                    internet standard
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short]: SIP is still used in VoIP desk phones,
                    and I think that was the original use case
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]  hasn't seen a desk phone, VoIP or otherwise,
                    in a while
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: the new cool-kid companies don't have
                    internal phone systems at all...
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short]: yeah. Generals fighting the last war.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: you just can't deploy a new standard on the
                    internets these days, in any case
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]  is really not even quite sure why IETF still
                    exists.
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short]: well, it's nice to still have a
                    standards body that isn't the W3C
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short]: (as a reminder of how things could have
                    gone)
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]  is also not sure why the W3C exists :-)
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: there was real greatness in the IETF, but
                    not as much as there could have been
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: the whole DNA of IP networking incorporates
                    the assumption that basically it's a network of trusted 
                    parties, way too deeply
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: if you expose a new service it will simply
                    get spammed to death
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: the only reason we have port 25 is that
                    email existed before spam, so it was worth saving
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short]: yeah.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: so, that's basically why we're shipping a
                    new layer, not a new service on the old layer.
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short]: sure. I think my tolerance for
                    compatibility with old crap is greater than yours; perhaps 
                    as much greater
                    as your tolerance for engineering compromise is over 
                    Stanislav's. :)
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short]: A complementary approach to the spam
                    problem, I think, is to build services that can function 
                    with bounded levels of trust --
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: there are different ways of doing
                    compatibility with old crap
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: your ship, for instance, is actually a
                    pretty decent HTTP server...
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: the basic principle is that the old crap can
                    depend on us, but we can't depend on the old crap
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short]: Right, I do remember that part. Makes
                    sense.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: also, the minimum level of trust is
                    essentially the knowledge that an identity is a unique or at 
                    least identifiable individual
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: or at least, a *finite* individual in some
                    sense.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: you really can't do anything with an
                    infinite-identity system.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: IPv4 addresses come really close to being an
                    excellent finite-identity system, but they are too wrapped up 
                    in routing topology.
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short]: For some values of anything. There are
                    still things that make sense as coin-operated services, I think
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: then you have the knowledge that someone has
                    paid a coin - again, finite in some sense.
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short]: Right. But not strongly tied to
                    identity.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: right.  but you know what identity paid a
                    coin.  so even in an infinite space, it enters the subspace of 
                    coin-paying identities.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: but it's moot, as IPv4 never established a
                    payment model either.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: easy to imagine what the Internet would have
                    been if BTC had been part of it from the beginning :-)
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short]: Sure. It's almost moot to talk about IP
                    these days; the set of hosts you can exchange IP packets with 
                    is much smaller than the set you can establish a TCP (or HTTP!)
                    connection with
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: yes.  this is all part of the general
                    pattern of "use the internets as a modem."
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: it is a fairly good modem... but...
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short]: Bryan Ford and friends have been
                    thinking about how to cope with this: 
                    http://dedis.cs.yale.edu/2009/tng/
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: well, that's a nice publication.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: good luck with your chicken-and-egg
                    problem...
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short]: heh yes
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: you can always publish something in the
                    "Journal of Herculean Solutions to Problems Everyone Stopped 
                    Trying To Fix Many Years Ago"
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: this is why I left academic CS, they are
                    always making up problems which sound real but aren't, then 
                    solving them
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: I am now capable of skimming a paper in 30
                    seconds and finding the unrealistic assumption which makes the
                    problem interesting
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short]: Certainly. Worse, when they do find a
                    real problem, it still has to be couched in the same language 
                    and format
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: in this case that would be, "we can get
                    everyone to install flow boxes for our new transport protocol 
                    in their DMZs"
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: this is what I call the "City Lights
                    problem"
    ~sivbud-barnel [Bruce Schwartz] is in the building
    ~nibweg-sivnex is in the building
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: you can see it if you go upstairs to the
                    poetry room at City Lights bookstore in SF
    ~difryt-dapdeg [Ian Michael (imrowan) Rowan]: As a fan of Ferlinghetti, I
                    approve this analogy
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: on the walls are probably about 7,000 works
                    of modern poetry, perhaps 20 or 30 of which are worth reading
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: but they all look the same on the outside...
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: Ferlinghetti had it easy, he did his thing
                    before the legion of Ferlinghetti imitators arrived
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short]: well, the stuff they were working on is
                    getting new transport protocols to fit through old ones, as I
                    understand it
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short]: since installing new boxes is
                    infeasible
    ~difryt-dapdeg [Ian Michael (imrowan) Rowan]: I admit imitating him
                    shamelessly in grade school
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short]: the argument basically being "TCP is
                    the new bottom layer of the interwebz"
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: when something is too easy to imitate,
                    social cues determine who succeeds
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: I take exception to this, I do believe UDP
                    can be made to work
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: but your home isn't really part of the
                    interwebz, still less your cell phone
    ~difryt-dapdeg [Ian Michael (imrowan) Rowan]: If only the new documentary on
                    him didn't suck (I don't know, I just assume it will)
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short]: I would like UDP to work. But as you
                    say, it's hard to get into your home and harder to get into 
                    your cellphone
    ~difryt-dapdeg [Ian Michael (imrowan) Rowan]: Isn't that just as much due to
                    widespread natting?
    ~difryt-dapdeg [Ian Michael (imrowan) Rowan]: Which UDP seems to punch
                    through with less issue
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short]: On a first-world home internet
                    connection yes.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: exactly, but not even on a cellphone
                    internet connection
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: these are typically not full-cone AFAIK
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: but on a cellphone, you should only be
                    talking to your ship in the cloud
    ~difryt-dapdeg [Ian Michael (imrowan) Rowan]: Intriguing (I had to look up
                    full cone)
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: and running your urbit ship at home is only
                    for those who truly fear the NSA/CIA/FBI etc
    ~difryt-dapdeg [Ian Michael (imrowan) Rowan]: I'd feel safer running an
                    Urbit ship on a cloud VPS than I would a Linux distro
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: I would too, but I don't fear the NSA
    ~difryt-dapdeg [Ian Michael (imrowan) Rowan]: *to clarify, "than I would
                    running a Linux distro on a cloud VPS"
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: I fear machine outages - nb, we are putting
                    Raft in the event logging system to create a genuinely 
                    reliable server
    ~difryt-dapdeg [Ian Michael (imrowan) Rowan]: I fear the NSA less than the
                    local cops, and data loss on a par with anything that threatens
                    my physical safety
    ~difryt-dapdeg [Ian Michael (imrowan) Rowan]: Raft? Another
                    Stephenson-inspired naming?
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: this is Ousterhout's replacement for Paxos
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: don't know the origin of the name...
    ~difryt-dapdeg [Ian Michael (imrowan) Rowan]: Wow (reading RAFT)
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: once zod/doznec are protected by this, and
                    we have conquered the continuity issues, dataz will never be 
                    lost
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin] now feels reasonably confident he could
                    change the type of type type, without losing continuity
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: continuity breach warning is flashing RED
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: Happy New Year!  And welcome to Hoon 164.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: Hoon is now frozen for the reasonably
                    short-term future.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: More documentation is coming soon...
    ~roppec-sampyx "Lysergic Spooner" is in the building
    ~roppec-sampyx "Lysergic Spooner": Apparently I am immortal, having proven I
                    have no life
    ~difryt-dapdeg [Ian Michael (imrowan) Rowan] is in the building
    ~difryt-dapdeg [Ian Michael (imrowan) Rowan]: Yep, that's the shortest chat
                    backlog I've seen yet *g*
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin] has left the building
    ~hatteb-mitlyd "atax1a" is in the building
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin] is in the building
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: yes we seem to exist again, gentlemen
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: I always worry that the breach instructions
                    are not as accessible as they should be
    ~hatteb-mitlyd "atax1a": with a significantly cooler hoon. :D
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: yes it is, better wear at least some
                    underwear before you go outside at 164
    ~dilnem-nodfun "cmm" is in the building
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: always nice to see the core group show up
                    when we reboot the world
    ~dilnem-nodfun "cmm" just happens to procrastinate on going to sleep every
                    time you do that :)
    ~hatteb-mitlyd "atax1a": well, we are well-versed in the ritual of the
                    continuity breach.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: fortunately it's a ritual that is becoming
                    rarer and rarer
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: but my concern is for those with weaker
                    attachment
    ~dilnem-nodfun "cmm": I was expecting doznec to be herd-thundered into
                    unresponsiveness in those first minutes, but go figure
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: one thing we're going to do is put a live
                    chat window on urbit.org, output only...
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: none of us was chatting much over the
                    christmas break, it helped keep the numbers down
    ~hatteb-mitlyd "atax1a" can only imagine what it's like to breach continuity
                    on~zod. "It must be one step hairier than doing~doznec, eh?"
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: no, it's really very simple, you just run
                    with -c.
    ~dilnem-nodfun "cmm": make an RSS feed of that chat window, while at it
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: I think I'll also start posting regular
                    dumps to the urbit blog.
    ~dilnem-nodfun "cmm": ...or that, yeah
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: including only %white discourse, of course.
    ~dilnem-nodfun "cmm": still, I picked the right time to go %punk
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: I really want to eventually enforce a
                    one-face rule on people
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: so that the shipname gets remembered better
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: this will be easier when sh*t isn't
                    constantly breaking
    ~dilnem-nodfun "cmm": one-face as in once chatty ship per person or same
                    name on all ships the person is using to chat?
    ~dilnem-nodfun "cmm": s/once/one/
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: one chatty ship per person.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: enforced only with weak social pressure.
    ~dilnem-nodfun "cmm": and how would you enforce that?
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: hardly at all.  well, new users get only one
                    destroyer.
    ~dilnem-nodfun "cmm": gah, you type faster than I think
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: the point is to have one ship, one user be
                    normal
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: of course not everyone has to be normal.
    ~dilnem-nodfun "cmm": so yachts don't get to chat?
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: certainly not directly.
    ~dilnem-nodfun "cmm": ah
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: there are only 2^32 reputations.  so even if
                    :room accepted messages from a yacht they'd be listed under 
                    its destroyer.
    ~hatteb-mitlyd "atax1a" understands yachts to be pleasure vessels.
                    Destroyers are... something else entirely.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: don't sail away with the metaphor!
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: yachts are client ids.  destroyers are
                    servers.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: actually I think we'll change it to "yawls."
    ~dilnem-nodfun "cmm": destruction can bring pleasure!  as can cruising and
                    carrying, of course
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: so, for instance, a yacht is tied to a
                    browser persona via cookies
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: well, you can pack a yawl with explosives.
    ~hatteb-mitlyd "atax1a" is suitably re-metaphored.
    ~dilnem-nodfun "cmm": explosive cookies
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin] has no actual plans to do jihad.
    ~hatteb-mitlyd "atax1a" snickers.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin] explains that "Urbit is the greater jihad."
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin] exhorts all jihadis to cancel their
                    pressure-cooker orders and learn Nock.
    ~dilnem-nodfun "cmm": oh, the proper term is "pop rocks"
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin] used to smuggle pop rocks into Singapore,
                    double-sealed in a rectal condom.
    ~dilnem-nodfun "cmm" 'm mind is now hung, trying to decide whether "rectal"
                    refers to type of product, placement thereof, or both
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: but one day the latex broke and... let's
                    just say it was embarrassing.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: so he became a programmer instead.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin] was just thinking of
                    http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abdullah_Hassan_Al_Aseery.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: an old buddy of mine, Abdul, he should have
                    stuck with the pop rocks
    ~dilnem-nodfun "cmm": who knows perhaps he did.  amount matters
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: well, it's a fact that Prince Nayef wasn't
                    that badly injured...
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin] imagines missions deep into the secret heart
                    of Yemen, convincing the local explosives engineers that pop 
                    rocks are really PETN
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: in other news, does anyone know why lldb on
                    Mavericks thinks all my corefiles are corrupt?
    ~hatteb-mitlyd "atax1a": not offhand
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: error: core.88781 is a corrupt mach-o file:
                    load command 440 LC_SEGMENT_64 has a fileoff + filesize 
                    (0x5a438000) that extends beyond the end of the file 
                    (0x5a437000), the segment will be truncated
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: it could be the result of our mmap abuse,
                    perhaps...
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short] is in the building
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: any difficulty with the continuity breach,
                    malmec?
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short]: there was a slight hiccup i think?
                    after :begin, I got "request approved", a... martian file 
                    listing, i guess,
                    then a "save: gc:" line, then it stopped at "waiting" until 
                    I hit ^D
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short]: but then i got the usual try prompt
    ~hatteb-mitlyd "atax1a" remembers that bug being around for a while, but
                    isn't sure what to do to fix it.
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4" is in the building
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4" is The Ship that Shouted Ahoy at the Heart of the
                    Urth.
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": Some humor for the new continuity era:
                    https://research.microsoft.com/en-us/people/mickens/
                    thenightwatch.pdf
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short]: i have to wonder about that guy
    ~hatteb-mitlyd "atax1a" has a copy of that in a "recently read" stack. If I
                    wanted to be completely derivative, I could ape his style...
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short]: after reading
                    http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/people/mickens/
                    thisworldofours.pdf I started to get suspicious
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short]: 'I’ll look at the abstract for the
                    talk, and it will say something like this: “It is well-known 
                    that five-way secret sharing has been illegal since the 
                    Protestant Reformation [Luther1517].'
    ~racbes-solmun "kpm" is in the building
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": It reads like a clean, academic version of
                    cracked.com to me.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: malmec, your update was slow because our
                    network only gets about 20k/s
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": "Interestingly, a mobile phone
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": should be able
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": to make phone calls while it moves through time and
                    space
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": .
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": I derived this provocative concept from basic notions
                    of
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": adjectives and nouns"
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: combination of an interpreted protocol and
                    poorly optimized congestion control
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": Sorry for the line spam.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: that's okay, we have no shortage of at the
                    present time
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: every month or two I'll head out to Costco
                    and buy a 1024-pak
    ~dilnem-nodfun "cmm" has left the building
    ~sarlug-picwep "ikari" is in the building
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: they're cheaper without the carriage return.
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": Yes, I used FN-SHIFT-INSERT in an attempt to paste a
                    highlighted snippet of a .pdf, and apparently caught the line 
                    breaks as well.
    ~sarlug-picwep "ikari" has left the building
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin] would probably be appalled if he ever had a
                    look at what's inside a pdf
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: at least I don't think it's turing complete,
                    unlike postscript
    ~hatteb-mitlyd "atax1a": It's still pretty horrifying, as evidenced by the
                    linebreaks of earlier.
    ~difryt-dapdeg [Ian Michael (imrowan) Rowan] has left the building
    ~roppec-sampyx "Lysergic Spooner" has left the building
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: I think he does have a point, but it is
                    somewhat obscured by the style
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: maybe with slightly less acid in the
                    spaghetti?
    ~divsem-misdef "xulrunner42" is in the building
    ~sarlug-picwep "ikari" is in the building
    ~tomsyt-balsen [John Burnham] is in the building
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": We might then have been deprived of the author's
                    insights into the putatively prototypical life of Ted, the 
                    Poorly Paid Datacenter Operator
    ~sarlug-picwep "ikari" has left the building
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: Stan Kelly-Bootle also never grows old...
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": who will gladly sacrifice your POST request for his
                    '80s cartoon collection.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin] 's ambition is to make computers work so well
                    they are NO LONGER FUNNY.
    ~ramdun-mirpec [Tom (alethiophile) Hunt] is in the building
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": Yet another pathology of Hedonistic Utilitarianism:
                    what if the net pleasure gained through humor at the expense 
                    of faulty computing outweighs the utilons gained from 
                    well-functioning computers?
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: ideally we'll use our well-functioning
                    computers to create great new works of funny
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": And now we must calculate the discount ratio of
                    future humor to see if its worth the costs.
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": This sounds complicated to do deductively, however
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": ,so perhaps we should set up a "Future Human Humor
                    Production" betting market.
    ~tomsyt-balsen [John Burnham]: we'll have to calculate a net present value
                    for future humor
    ~tomsyt-balsen [John Burnham]: how many 2014 hedons is 1 2015 hedon worth?
    ~divsem-misdef "xulrunner42": :~novrud-hanweb/try=/bin/chat lives again
    ~tomsyt-balsen [John Burnham]: clearly a lending market is required
    ~tomsyt-balsen [John Burnham]: you tell me a funny joke now
    ~tomsyt-balsen [John Burnham]: and in exchange i'll tell you a funnier one
                    next year
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": But humor can only be consumed at an approximately
                    fixed rate (assuming spoken word jokes)
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": so expected longevity begins to play a role.
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": Unless I'm investing in humor for my estate
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": and even then, laughter has positive health benefits
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": so I'll need to find a function from funniness->years
                    of life added
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin] somehow broke his ability to send requests
                    that wait for a response.  again.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: that is, filesystem requests.  so, if update
                    isn't working for you, it's because your clock is skewed ahead.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: of course if update isn't working for you,
                    you're not here...
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short]: urbit cannot be considered complete
                    until it is used to generate and share cat pictures, of course
    ~divsem-misdef "xulrunner42" has left the building
    ~divsem-misdef "xulrunner42" is in the building
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": "/~fantyv-ralpen/try/2/web/Turkish_Van_Cat/jpg"
    ~difryt-dapdeg [Ian Michael (imrowan) Rowan] is in the building
    ~roppec-sampyx "Lysergic Spooner" is in the building
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": If you are able to :cat that, you could write the
                    terminal output to another file perhaps, and open it in Unix.
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": Of course, I get a syntax error when I try ":ls
                    /=try/2/web/Turkish_Van_Cat/jpg"
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": *":cat /=try/2/web/Turkish_Van_Cat/jpg"
    ~sarlug-picwep "ikari" is in the building
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin] finds that his latest executable totally
                    flips out when compiled with -g.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: hey Apple, basic toolchain principles:
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: (1) -g always has the same result as -O, and
                    vice versa.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: (2) the program always does the same thing
                    in the debugger as plain.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin] feels this LLVM gcc toolchain is not ready
                    for prime time.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: yes, the repeated key exchange thing is
                    definitely a problem
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: apart from anything, it effectively leaks
                    memory
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: I do see the repeated key exchange bug
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: "~doznec is your neighbor" all too often
    ~hatteb-mitlyd "atax1a" is not seeing this.
    ~divsem-misdef "xulrunner42":  OK, I'm fine with that
    ~divsem-misdef "xulrunner42" was in~pm
    ~hatteb-mitlyd "atax1a" amends: i saw~doznec become my neigbor more than
                    once.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: I will fix this.  but, I have to fix the
                    delayed request bug first.  what's irritating is, I feel like 
                    I already fixed this bug and git lost my change.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: but then, I looked at the fix location and
                    the fix seems to be there.  so...
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": doznec just became my neighbor again.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: it's a little too neighborly for my taste
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: I mean give it a rest, doznec...
    ~divsem-misdef "xulrunner42": at least he doesn't stomp on your ceiling like
                    my other neighbor
    ~divsem-misdef "xulrunner42": every time i hear their baby cry I think the
                    sound that comes after must be the baby getting dropkicked
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short]: oh. yes I got 23 "~doznec is your
                    neighbor" messages after :begin
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: yes, that's 23 key exchanges, decidedly
                    suboptimal
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin] is sure he did something to break that...
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short]: but i did go off and leave it for half
                    an hour
    ~difryt-dapdeg [Ian Michael (imrowan) Rowan]: Prior to this latest breach I
                    was getting %route timeouts between myself and doznec quite 
                    often
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: it's the same thing I think, I just deleted
                    the route timeout message
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: but I also thought I'd scaled back on the
                    excess key exchanges... hm
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4":
    ~divsem-misdef "xulrunner42" has left the building
    ~divsem-misdef "xulrunner42" is in the building
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short]: last time i worked with a udp-based
                    protocol that needed congestion control, we just went with a 
                    literal reimplementation of TCP
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short]: (with some different header fields)
    ~divsem-misdef "xulrunner42" has left the building
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short]: I have to wonder how well congestion
                    control is working out for CCNx
    ~divsem-misdef "xulrunner42" is in the building
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: don't know CCNx's congestion control
                    problem, but I know it's more focused on multicast
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: that seems harder...
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: as for reimplementing TCP, there are of
                    course several TCP algs to choose from
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: we have the additional complication that our
                    acks are end-to-end
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: the ack is sent only after the packet is
                    fully processed and committed
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: it is the same congestion control problem,
                    but with a lot more variance because the internal round trip 
                    is treated as part of the pathway
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: but also, I just winged it with something
                    crude that works
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: certainly not the way to get good CC
                    results...
    ~divsem-misdef "xulrunner42" has left the building
    ~divsem-misdef "xulrunner42" is in the building
    ~hatteb-mitlyd "atax1a": If you want to look like a P2P filesharing app,
                    there's always the congestion-control algorithm from 
                    BitTorrent!
    ~divsem-misdef "xulrunner42" has left the building
    ~divsem-misdef "xulrunner42" is in the building
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: yes I considered that one as well, though it
                    prioritizes against interactive traffic
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: it's really the perfect project for a bright
                    intern to spend a week on
    ~divsem-misdef "xulrunner42" has left the building
    ~divsem-misdef "xulrunner42" is in the building
    ~divsem-misdef "xulrunner42" has left the building
    ~divsem-misdef "xulrunner42" is in the building
    ~hatteb-mitlyd "atax1a": Two weeks, if one didn't know Hoon that well.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: we'll develop a Matrix style chip for
                    learning Hoon.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: like doc but better...
    ~hatteb-mitlyd "atax1a" would settle for doc.
    ~hatteb-mitlyd "atax1a": I also have a friend who did a Chicago
                    implementation.
    ~hatteb-mitlyd "atax1a" knows we're partial to raving with dj djb here...
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": Chicago implementation?
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: Chicago implementation?
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin] wants to know if that's a euphemism.
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": Dan Bernstein, perhaps.
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": aka djb.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: I know that part.  But not the Chicago.
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": He's at the University of Illinois at Chicago, but I
                    don't know what exactly is being implemented...
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin] somehow assumed it was UIUC.
    ~hatteb-mitlyd "atax1a": Chicago, the congestion control algorithm specified
                    somewhere around CurveCP. :)
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": From Wikipedia: "Bernstein explained, in 2005, that
                    he is pursuing a strategy to "produce invulnerable computer 
                    systems". He plans to achieve this by putting the vast majority
                    of computer software into an "extreme sandbox" that only allows
                    it to transform input into output."
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: ah.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: Urbit is a sort of extreme sandbox...
    ~hatteb-mitlyd "atax1a": http://curvecp.org/decongestion.html
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": Thank you, atax1a.
    ~divsem-misdef "xulrunner42" has left the building
    ~divsem-misdef "xulrunner42" is in the building
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin] will take a look.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: looks pretty reasonable, like most of the
                    djb stuff
    ~hatteb-mitlyd "atax1a" goes to read through the new, cooler, hoon.hoon.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: the changes are all subtle... but...
    ~divsem-misdef "xulrunner42" has left the building
    ~hatteb-mitlyd "atax1a": any HEADSUP for the experienced reader?
    ~divsem-misdef "xulrunner42" is in the building
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: hoons are now divided into twigs and tiles -
                    this division used to be very unclear
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: I guess that was in the previous checkin,
                    but...
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: in this one we have aliases, =*
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: you can bind an alias as you pattern-match
                    it
    ~monder-navryx "LarryH" is in the building
    ~hatteb-mitlyd "atax1a": How would i use tistar?
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: if you say "=*  a  b"
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: it's like "=+  a  b"
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: except that b has to be a wing (resolve to
                    an axis, not a computed expression)
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: and the subject noun is unchanged
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: also, when you pattern-match on your alias a
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: what you learn about an alias stays on the
                    alias
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: this eliminates a common problem where you
                    know a type in too much detail
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: and can't for example bind something more
                    general back into it
    ~hatteb-mitlyd "atax1a": that clarifies matters a bit more.
    ~hatteb-mitlyd "atax1a" still doesn't quite grok /===/try/app/hoon, except
                    in broad strokes. At last check, fapp in batz launched an app 
                    from the filesystem.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: it does that...
    ~hatteb-mitlyd "atax1a": the app... tisgar centis dot lus tisgar lus...
    ~hatteb-mitlyd "atax1a": "given the current subject, tack this core on"?
    ~hatteb-mitlyd "atax1a": "and invoke"??
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: you're deep in the heart of the funk my man
    ~hatteb-mitlyd "atax1a" cannot tell if that's a good thing.
    ~divsem-misdef "xulrunner42": gotta have that funk!
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: it is a good thing.  but, it is probably not
                    the best use of my time to explain ++fapp at the moment.
    ~hatteb-mitlyd "atax1a": sur.
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen" is in the building
    ~hatteb-mitlyd "atax1a": +e.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: hey, can everyone do a :reset?
    ~hatteb-mitlyd "atax1a": now? no :update?
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": just :reset, no :update?
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: I am starting to suspect that some old code
                    slipped in to the last urbit.pill.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: an :update can't hurt.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: but what I notice is that when I start
                    reloading to find the bugs, the bugs go away.
    ~divsem-misdef "xulrunner42" has left the building
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short] has left the building
    ~monder-navryx "LarryH" has left the building
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short] is in the building
    ~monder-navryx "LarryH" is in the building
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": :update and :reset complete
    ~hatteb-mitlyd "atax1a" got a %clay update and successfully reset.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: it certainly can't hurt yo.
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": my computer is not as fast
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": got the same update on divsem-misdef, still doing
                    :reset
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": what the %duce
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: sorry about that %duce
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: doznec is going up and down, update again
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: the duce will be gone
    ~hidsup-donsyn "UWTB" is in the building
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": thats better
    ~difryt-dapdeg [Ian Michael (imrowan) Rowan] has left the building
    ~malmec-libsev [Allen (dash) Short] has left the building
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4" has left the building
    ~roppec-sampyx "Lysergic Spooner": Huh, this destroyer got the char restart
                    on its own, the other was still trying. I update and reset this
                    one and got it back already, the other's still [waiting...] on 
                    the :update.
    ~hatteb-mitlyd "atax1a": Updated, reloaded %clay.
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: still waiting on that update?  who's
                    waiting?
    ~roppec-sampyx "Lysergic Spooner": waiting is~difryt-dapdeg
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: hang on ....
    ~sarlug-picwep "ikari": Not on the :update, but~fantyv-ralpen is waiting
                    for~doznec.
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": it worked here,~divsem-misdef is still doing
                    :reset but it did get the update, second time I tried
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: hm... I see some unacknowledged messages...
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": first time it was just hanging having a hard time
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: tell you what - I have to go and pick up my
                    kids
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: did you kill it, yebyen?
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": ^D
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": tried again, worked, should be back any second
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: hm, I do prefer not working around things
                    that are working badly...
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": at %vane %e
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: report the crime, don't solve the crime
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: but I encourage everyone with a waiting
                    destroyer to leave it waiting for right now
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: and if it keeps waiting, the drydock is the
                    place for it...
    ~divsem-misdef "xulrunner42" is in the building
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: possible that doznec lost some events in my
                    power cycle, though I kind of doubt it
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": sorry I didn't save it for you, this device is an
                    android tegra3
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": so it was pretty slow
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: I can use a pier from an android tegra3,
                    it's all the same pier man
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": i thought it might just be slowness or intermittent
                    network issue
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: that is possible as well...
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": i'm sure you could use it
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin]: anyway, catch you guys later...
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": cheers!
    ~sarlug-picwep "ikari": Vale.
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": I noticed some weirdness with the ! quit the other
                    day before the breach
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": i never tried ! to quit before, but it didn't quit
                    how I hoped at all
    ~divsem-misdef "xulrunner42" has left the building
    ~tasfyn-partyv [Curtis Yarvin] has left the building
    ~difryt-dapdeg [Ian Michael (imrowan) Rowan] is in the building
    ~difryt-dapdeg [Ian Michael (imrowan) Rowan]: Looks like quitting and
                    restarting the pier unhosed me
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4" is in the building
    ~hatteb-mitlyd "atax1a" was unaware that ! was supposed to quit.
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": Reboot fixed the~doznec hang here too.
    ~hidsup-donsyn "UWTB" has left the building
    ~ramhes-wisbyt is in the building
    ~ramhes-wisbyt has left the building
    ~rigryx-sovrus "atax2a" is in the building
    ~tomsyt-balsen [John Burnham] has left the building
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": well, that tegra3 went defunct
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": my faith in the TF700T is very thin
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": i've actually had a much better time with the tf100
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": i don't know what happens to these two extra cores
                    or that extra ram
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": but the tf100 performs much better with 2.6
                    kernel/katkiss than this faster machine with 3.1 and 
                    cyanogenmod
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": vere is basically unusable for divsem-misdef, too
                    bad
    ~monder-navryx "LarryH" has left the building
    ~monder-navryx "LarryH" is in the building
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": hey, auction!
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": anyone out there?
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": Present.
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": Though not for the auction.
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": That was supposed to be today, wasn't it?
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": It is today, it is happening now.
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": I just heard it reported that the bid is at 7.1BTC
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": which is~0.1BTC more than I have
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": I don't know if just anyone can bid, or only those
                    on the list
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": hackernews is back up, that's good news
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": fantyv-ralpen: there's also
                    :~novrud-hanweb/try=/bin/chat now!
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": Testing immediately.
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": if you're in both rooms, you get all messages twice
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen" has left the building
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": This is~doznec :chat.
    ~hidsup-donsyn "UWTB" is in the building
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4" has left the building
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen" is in the building
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": hmm, that didn't work
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4" is in the building
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": fantyv
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": maybe :room changes too
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": How did you alter line 97?
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": changed all yo to oy, zo to oz
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": err...
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": you know
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": then I did the same in room, and it seems to have
                    fixed everything without a reload
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": Copy.
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": Test
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": Should I make similar modifications?
    ~hatteb-mitlyd "atax1a": i found this internet numbers station reading a
                    totally random file: http://unified.cf.gs:8000/listen.pls
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": you aren't reading any of that are you
                    fantyv-ralpen
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": Nothing, sorry.
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": you need to ^D my chat and start it again from
                    :~novrud-hanweb/try=/bin/chat
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": you'll get try/3
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": Yes, expected as much. Doing so now.
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": i'm running a main/2/bin/room/hoon now, that fixed
                    everything
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": but you need a client that listens on the right
                    ports
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": Just sent a test string. What port needs changing?
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": if you run~novrud-hanweb/try=/bin/chat you get the
                    new version
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": Just did.
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": i changed %yo to %zo and %oy to %oz
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": still nothing huh
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": maybe your old client needs to timeout first
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": you know, i'm not sure it worked
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": Second test sent.
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": it's harder because I don't know what channel I
                    received that message on
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": Second test sent.
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": That was in~doznec chat.
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": Just tried another yebyen-chat message.
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": yeah so it must not have worked
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": my = still doesn't work
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": Trying to connect to yy-chat with a second destroyer.
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": [waiting...]
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": I guess it did not work.
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": something must still look for %yo or %oy
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": but nothing in either of these files, room.hoon or
                    chat.hoon
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": hello there ikari
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": Sending messages to yy-chat from alternate destroyer.
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": i see sarlug-picwep is my neighbor, but that's it
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": no messages
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": My ships can't see each other inside yy-chat either.
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": Messages are only visible to the ship that transmits.
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": I changed yo in room.hoon
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": line 163, [/zo [%lq %zo]]
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": and 187, and 153 had %oy, turned into %oz
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": don't know why it didn't work
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": but it's late here on the east coast!
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": gotta work tomorrow, unless cold snap
    ~novrud-hanweb "yebyen": peace ^_^
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": Auf wiedersehen.
    ~fantyv-ralpen "jpt4": Thanks for the lessons.

