---
layout: post
category: blog
author: atax1a
title: claiming ~net
date: 2014-1-15 06:59
---

The quoted material comes from an email sent by Curtis Yarvin-- my reply is in-line.

> The general idea of Urbit has always been to use the potential value of the
> namespace to drive its development.  Partly this involves doing what we've
> done, which is to create a company and get funding from evil VCs.  But
> fundamentally, Urbit remains an open-source project - for example, there is
> no secret codebase - and we can't really succeed without public
> contributions.

Urbit is a labor of love, and I'd like to see it go far. Cosmic, even.
I doubt anyone will begrudge you for acting within the guidelines of
today's Corporations-Are-People mindset, especially since the entire
operation has been transparent since the beginning.

> Basically, as in all open-source projects, people have contributed and will
> contribute to Urbit, because Urbit is cool and fun.  If they are in a sense
> being paid, or expected to be paid, for this work, Urbit becomes less cool
> and fun.  So we don't want to see the real estate as in any sense a bounty,
> a payment, a prize, etc, etc.  A crucial element of the scheme is that
> those who win, win without any prior expectation of winning.  This
> preserves the fun factor.  I hope.

The fun, for me, is in helping to create a virtual world, from scratch,
using no more than some simple mechanical rules. Urbit is fun, and I'm
pleased by how well my contributions have been accepted.  This is
already rewarding, though, of course, I'm not saying 'no' to a carrier.

> Owning an Urbit carrier is more than just a reward - it is also a duty.
>  Urbit is a digital republic, and as a carrier owner you are literally a
> senator of this republic.  For the moment, of course, the republic is tiny
> and it does not need republican government - it needs a dictator.  As it
> grows and succeeds, its governance must and will become not only
> republican, but even democratic.  I hope this doesn't shock anyone.
>
> It seems clear that those who accept this duty (you can always decline)
> should be defined by one word: virtue.  A virtuous republic is impossible
> without virtuous governors.

One time, I was talking about Urbit, and someone summarized it as "It
sounds like you're kind of important in this imaginary world."  I
shouldn't let this talk get to my head, but it gets difficult when you
send out messages about how important my participation can be. ;)  Now I
get to talk about being a Rear Admiral in the Urbit Republic, or
something along those lines.

> Therefore, I've decided to issue urbit.org carriers in the following way:
> distribution is in rounds, each of which is defined by a previously
> unannounced virtue.  For instance, in 2010, I committed to issuing carriers
> to anyone who could write decrement in Nock.  I promised a prize to be
> disclosed later.  I don't think anyone had any idea that this prize would
> be something you could sell (please don't, though!) for over $10,000.

"You can't even buy these for dollars," Y.T. says, of her skateboard.
I'm humbled by this reward, and to sell it would be completely contrary
to the virtue expected of us.  \`@udd\`10.000 is certainly a number, but
its type isn't compatible with ++zeno.

All this is to say that I'll take this duty seriously.  Sinking a
carrier makes a large portion of the address space go dark, a
complication we can all do without.  Urbit is easy, uncomplicated, and
fun, but fun can't exist without some serious work behind it.

> What was the virtue of the 2010 winners?  One of the classic virtues -
> luck.  They did the right thing in the right place at the right time.
>  Hence, in the carrier database their carriers are listed as "per fortuna."

It still surprises me that Nock, as we know it, has been around this
long.  We live in a culture where something from 3 months ago is
considered old news, which makes the \`fortuna' carrier-holders ancient...

> In this round we're celebrating a different virtue - loyalty to Urbit.
>  Your carrier is "per fidelis."  This reflects the fact that for the last
> three months, more or less, you have showed up, chatted, evangelized, sent
> bug reports, worked through the doc, etc, etc, etc.  Without any
> expectation of being rewarded for this, obviously.  It is the lack of
> expectation that makes the reward genuinely effective, and not
> overjustified.  I hope.

The experience of poking around in this digital labyrinth is utterly
addictive.  Even without the potential for reward, Urbit would hold my
attention, so the reward is indeed effective.  (I hope.)

> Unless you are a present carrier holder, feel free to look through ++zeno
> and pick any carrier that is presently assigned to me or to Tlon, other
> than ~zod of course.  We'll adjust the bindings as needed.

I like the idea of holding carrier ~net, \`@p\`79. The associations for
that number are mostly favorable, and I won't belabor the point by
listing them all out.

As a final note. I recognize that having a carrier means giving up most
of the privacy I sought in the atax1a mask, but that privacy was
illusory (and orthogonal to Urbit) anyway.  This is the price of living
in our modern world.
